---
layout: post
title: "What I learned from CORDIC"
date: 2025-03-17 12:00:01 -0500
categories: algorithm project
---

[CORDIC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CORDIC) is an algorithm to quickly
calculate trig functions such as sine and cosine on a computer without dedicated
hardware such as a Floating-Point Unit (FPU).

To implement the algorithm, I studied previous examples of people having
implemented it. I implemented it in assembly, but with using the FPU for most
of the calculations. Obviously this doesn't make sense in the context of this
algorithm, so I decided to go back and fix that.

I did successfully implement a conversion from floating-point numbers
to fixed-point ones (in the range I care about). I need to practice my
bit-twiddilng.

Once that was finished, I made sure the algorithm worked in C. Lastly it came
time to write it in assembly, the whole point of the exercise. I started writing
some of the basic structure and ran in to problems with memory accesses. It's easy
to forget how much magic is done for you by the compiler.

Eventually we got there (with some guidance from the compiler) and the algorithm was done.
My takeaways are that assembly is tricky! It's definitely not something to pick up in a moment
and be proficient in. It takes time and is very different from other kinds of programming.

Considering the effort it took me, it amazes me that someone was able to simply look at the math
in books, move some numbers around and create a solution to a problem that seems impossible.
The way that trigonometry deals with numbers feels so distant from what computers like, yet
a man named Jack Volder found a way to make it work in 1956! Incredible!
