---
layout: post
title: "Open Source with Helix"
date: 2025-09-10 12:00:01 -0500
categories: project
---

This summer I spent a good chunk of my time working on the [Helix Editor](https://github.com/helix-editor/helix).
School is starting again so I'm taking some time to reflect on the experience.

My first thoughts are that I am grateful to the maintainers, particularly `@themikedavis`.
There are thousands of **merged** commits on the repo, and that is ignoring the mountain
of PRs made that don't align with the project goals or are otherwise not viable to be merged.
The amount of effort he puts in is incredible, and it was a great experience being able to
try and help.

Aspects that I really enjoyed: I loved the feeling of helping people. I liked looking for bug
reports and submitting patches for them. It was so cool working with users to diagnose their problems
and make their day just a bit easier. It is rewarding to work on a specific person's problem and
solving it.

Aspects that I didn't enjoy as much: there is a significant community around the editor,
but it feels fragmented. The three main places were the GitHub, the subreddit, and the
Matrix room. This made it difficult to engage with everyone since everyone had a different
place where they went to talk about the editor. I also wish that more of the maintainers were
active. Mike puts in a huge amount of work, but the appetite of contributors is even greater.
Between reviewing PR's, rewriting huge dependencies, and managing the community, all
on nights and weekends, I think too much is being asked of one person and while I tried to make
my contributions with this in mind, I wish that it was less of a concern.

Don't let those negative thoughts make you think I didn't enjoy my experience. It was a blast!
I found myself excited to work on whatever issue I was tackling and found it very, very rewarding.
I would highly recommend finding an open source project you care about and setting aside some time
to pitch in!
